# SDTGEN

Sdtgen is a command line tool set for generating a table-driven combined
scanner and parser from a language description.  When language tokens are
defined for the scanner they are given an insertion and deletion cost.
The parser uses those costs to perform locally least-cost error repair
in the event of a syntax error.  No arcane error productions have to be
added to the grammar.

## Description

Sdtgen consists of three command line tools.  Sdtgen itself reads
a language definition which describes the scanner and parser for the
language.  From this definition it creates a number of tables which are
interpreted to recognize the language.

Packtables converts the scanner and parser tables produced by sdtgen
into a more space efficient format (at the cost of some lookup time).

Tableformat converts the packed tables produced by packtables into
C variable definitions which may be linked with a driver program and
the sdtgen library to produce a functional scanner and parser for the
language.

## Contents

* doc
   * SDTGEN User Guide in LibreOffice and PDF format.
* src - the scanner and parser generator.
* tools
   * packtables - the sdtgen table packer.
   * tableformat - the packtables to C formatter.
* lib
   * the library containing the parser and support functions.
* grammars - a directory containing the sdtgen language definition and various test languages.
* example - a directory containing an example main program for the parser.

## Dependencies

Sdtgen is written entirely in C and uses no libraries beyond the standard
C library.  It was developed on Ubuntu but should compile on any version
of Linux without issues.

## Compilation

Download a copy of this repository and enter the command
```
make
```
This compiles the code in the lib directory to produce the shared library
libsdt.so.  The code in the src directory is compiled and linked with
libsdt.so to produce the sdtgen scanner and parser generator.  The code
in the tools directory is compiled and linked with libsdt.so to produce
the packtables and tableformat tools.

## Documentation

See the [SDTGEN User Guide](doc/SDTGEN%20User%20Guide.pdf) for a complete
description of the generator, tools, and example code.

## Example Code

The example directory contains a minimal main program which can be linked
with libsdt.so and a table structure generated by sdtgen to create a
program to scan and parse the language described by the tables.  See the
SDTGEN User Guide for instructions on how to build the example code.

## License

Sdtgen is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License.
Sdtgen may be used to create the tables for a language and those tables
may be linked with libsdt.so and independently developed code with
no restrictions.  The sdtgen and tools code itself, however, must be
released under the LGPL license if modified.

## Author
Roy J. Mongiovi (mailto:mongiovi@bellsouth.net)
